Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to talk a little bit about best practices around what you should outsource
and what you should not.
So the biggest takeaway from this lecture is I'm going to go over what are the big rules around outsourcing.
What are the things that if you knew it could prevent you from making a huge outsourcing mistake it's
most important is to understand that there are certain scenarios that are completely inappropriate for
outsourcing and are in general a bad idea.
And then there are other scenarios where it's a fantastic idea and you're actually doing yourself a
disservice by not outsourcing it.
So the first thing to take into consideration when you can determine whether or not you should outsource
or not you should.
The first thing I'd always like to ask people is do you have enough money to outsource Now this might
be a little bit of kind of a misnomer because you think outsourcing is saving money.
So why is the first thing you ask about my budget.
Well I'll just save you a lot of money but it's not free it still costs some money.
You can still spend a lot of money.
Outsourcing especially if you're trying to build say a large web application or you're trying to outsource
a very large business process.
So I mean I can't even really generalize on the whole as to how much money outsourcing will Seaview
you know.
I mean it could be anywhere from 40 percent savings to 90 95 percent savings.
It kind of depends with how comfortable you are with outsourcing and what exactly you are outsourcing
and obviously how you do it and what deals you strike.
But in general you do need some money.
This is not one of those scenarios where we're going to find someone to do it for free.
I wish there were more scenarios like that and you know typically when someone comes into Sprint.
And they simply don't have the budget I usually suggest outsourcing and they don't have the budget for
that.
I usually tell them hey what you're trying to build.
It needs to shrink.
So take your application.
Reduce features.
Focus on the core of what you're trying to build or do.
And start from there.
So take a moment to evaluate what is your budget.
Is it more than zero.
Does it fit in general with what you think.
A very cheap version of what you could build is now later we're going to have lectures on how you can
figure out what exactly this is going to cost and I give some pretty in detail examples of what app
web applications I've had built before cost and to give you some kind of an idea of big application
small application what are we talking about in terms of money.
For most of you out there.
Most of you guys listening to this course probably came from our other courses are you're trying to
build a webapp mobile app.
You know we're not talking hundreds of dollars but we're usually not talking tens of thousands really
just kind of depends on what you're trying to build.
The second thing I always usually like to ask is Is the technology of your application is at the core
of what you're trying to build in the core of why our customer would value what you're trying to do
now.
If your end customer derives the majority of their value from your service or product or app and they
derive it from the technology of that application then outsourcing is quite a bit harder to do.
And you need to focus on using outsource outsourcing and outsourcing techniques to help you with smaller
more auxilary processes related to your main application.
Now you might be asking yourself What am I talking about.
I'll give you some examples so if you use the application called Shazam.
That's a great example of something you should not outsource.
So when I was saying that the consumer or your customer derives most of their value off of the technology
of what you're building Chisholm's a great example Shazam is that mobile application or it used to be
a web application and what it does is it listens to a song and it uses this kind of waveform technology
to match it to a database to tell a person what song it is.
So it's just Ames case.
The technology right there is proprietary it's the core reason why someone uses it.
Now the rest of the application the buttons the signs the you know all the smaller features that just
gets you to that technology.
Those are not core but the core technology of the matching system that is the reason why people care
about Shiism if they didn't have that we wouldn't be talking about it.
I'll give you another example.
We had a student in another course bring up anti-virus software is an advantage that outsource anti-virus
software as if you were going to try to build a software or some system that could detect viruses.
That's another one that's not a good candidate for outsourcing.
Why.
Well because the success of your application and the reason why people will use it ultimately comes
down to how complex and how well refined your technology is.
So an anti-virus It's constantly updating algorithms you're constantly updating the way that it determines
what a virus is and the way gets rid of it.
It's not one of those projects that you build it once and it's good for 10 years it's a project that's
constantly going to be iterating.
And again the technology itself is the core reason why it's good and why it makes money.
Last example Face dot com is a great example.
This is a technology that existed where it could match someone's face to other photographs of the same
person so it could basically determine who you are.
And it would use really interesting calculations and algorithms to match distance between your eyes
and your mouth and is really good even doing it at like angles and things like that.
So now faced Dotcom is actually integrated into Facebook I'm sure you use Facebook and that's the technology
they actually use to match your face into auto tag.
So FaceTime column is a great example of a something you could not outsource as you're trying to compete
with dot com and you wanted to make a system that could match people's faces again core reason why your
application or your product succeeds or fails and the reason why consumers use it is whether or not
it can match your face and do that well and that's something that's constantly going to need improvement
and constantly going to need to have tinkering with.
I bring that one up because at Sprint we were actually asked after face to face dotcom got bought to
build an alternative to dot com.
That's why we realized it's one of those things that would be impossible if you had an external organization
or external freelancer build for yourself.
Now the core reason why these are bad situations for outsourcing is because when you outsource you're
not only going to have a communication gap you're also going to have a relay process.
Something's wrong.
You notice you tell your contractor there's always a delay.
And the more delays you have the harder and slower it will take to make constant updates and iterations.
So if the core technology constantly needs to change and it's very advanced that is something that would
very much suffer from being in a vendor purchaser kind of relationship a contractor or entrepreneur
or company relationship.
And this brings me to the third thing I always ask people will your business crumble if what you're
outsourcing does not work.
Now it's really just kind of like the Jinggoy theory right.
If I remove this tiny little piece will ever come crashing down and that's a very important question
to ask yourself when you outsource and this applies not only to web application mobile application development.
It'd be wise to promotion it applies to advertising.
As CEO we're pr.
Any of those auxillary services accounting for example.
Now if you know if you had a situation where it was done poorly came late would that seriously hurt
your organization and not just inconvenience it because if you have inefficiencies in any department
of your company or your business or whatever you're doing that can affect other departments.
I'm talking about Will.
Will the curtain come down.
Will everything come to a close.
If this is not delivered on time correctly if that's the case that is something you should probably
think about doing in-house hiring in-house or figuring out to do yourself.
Not to say that you can't do it outsourced.
It's just typically one of those cases were I when I hear that I say that's a little bit more risky.
The last thing I usually like to ask people is what you're building.
A first of a kind and technology meaning I'm building something.
It's never been done before and that's what I'm going to go forward with.
That is typically not something that you want to outsource.
Now if you're trying to build a social network for let's say moms OK and you're saying that's never
been done before.
That's not what I'm talking about.
I'm talking about the core technology of your service or your product.
Has that been done before of course social networking has been done it's been done 100 times.
I'm talking about is what makes your whole thing work.
What makes it so valuable is that something that has been done before.
Now the reason why I say this is because outsourcing and one of the tricks we're going to teach you
in this course is using comparable services and comparable functions to not only make your communication
more efficient but also to reduce the price of your application or whatever you're getting done now
it's never been done before then.
It's one of those cases where you can't actually show the comparable function and somewhere else to
a developer.
So you have to strike a bit from scratch.
Now that in and of itself is not really the biggest problem the biggest problem is the estimate process.
Now if you came to spread Kagan said hey I want to build something that's never been done before.
How long is it going to take you to build.
That's almost an impossible question to ask.
Why.
Because we have to research it.
We have to develop new techniques and that's impossible to tell how long it's going to take us to research
how complex this ends up being.
And when we're going to arrive at this kind of eureka moment where everything clicks together and then
we build it.
So I say it's a bad idea for outsourcing because what ends up happening is you know it could be 10 percent
of the time you pay for is actually spent building it and 90 percent of the time could be researching
it.
So it's a very inefficient way of doing it.
It's also a problem then when you're outsourced vendor or outsource company they're the ones that have
the know how and how to build this.
So now if you're planning on having a long term relationship with an outsourced or contractor company
that's perfectly fine then right.
But if this is something you're just doing to get your business off the ground you might have issues
later down the road.
Now on the flip side what are good things to outsource.
Well I actually think it's pretty simple.
It's quite literally everything that didn't fit into the other four categories that I just came up with
Typically things that are good for outsourcing are things that you've seen be built before.
It's you know web application development it's mobile application development promotion.
It's testing it's marketing it's really any type of process that you can define relatively well and
you want to save money on really the sky's kind of the limit when it comes to what you can do with outsourcing.
I'm always amazed every time I see outsourced firms and what they're building and how they're getting
more and more integrated into modern companies today I'm obviously a huge fan of outsourcing and that's
why I'm creating this course and that's why I think it's something that everybody can benefit from it's
going to almost immediately once you develop the skills and this course help you save money save time
get your projects done faster.
But it's obvious that there are some situations where it's not worth doing.
You can't outsource 100 percent of everything you do.
And that's typically because something in your business or your project or your entrepreneurial idea
is going to fall on or on those four no no categories that I just brought up.
OK.
So when you're evaluating your project for building out keep this in mind think about whether or not
it matches any of those four criteria.
Any other questions.
There are obviously other ways other you know things that would prevent you from outsourcing this effectively.
These are just the big four that I think are the trickiest to kind of figure how.
And they're the ones that I've seen happen to people over and over and over again even seasoned veterans
so.
See you guys in the next lecture.